---
title: cpnDB
description: The goal of the cpnDB project is to provide a manually curated, taxonomically broad collection of chaperonin sequences.
published: true
date: 2020-07-23T01:59:15.414Z
tags: archaea, bacteria, phylogeny, proteins, taxonomic profiling, data capture, database, eukaryota
editor: markdown
---

# cpnDB

> cpnDB, a curated collection of cpn60 sequence data collected from public databases or generated by a network of collaborators exploiting the cpn60 target in clinical, phylogenetic, and microbial ecology studies. The growing database currently contains approximately 2000 records covering over 240 genera of bacteria, eukaryotes, and archaea. The database also contains over 60 sequences for the archaeal Type II chaperonin (thermosome, a homolog of eukaryotic cytoplasmic chaperonin) from 19 archaeal genera. 
&NewLine;
As the largest curated collection of sequences available for a protein-encoding gene, cpnDB provides a resource for researchers interested in exploiting the power of cpn60 as a diagnostic or as a target for phylogenetic or microbial ecology studies, as well as those interested in broader subjects such as lateral gene transfer and codon usage.
{.is-info}

 

## Website 

- [cpnDB *Main Page*](http://www.cpndb.ca/)
 {.links-list}
 
 ## Notes from User
 - Easy to browse or custom search for chaperonins
 - Can add chaperonins to cart, allows for easy download of sequences
 

## Citations

- Vancuren SJ and Hill JE. 2019. [Update on cpnDB: a reference database of chaperonin sequences.](https://academic.oup.com/database/article/doi/10.1093/database/baz033/5367323) Database 2019:baz033 doi:10.1093/database/baz033.
- Hill JE, Penny SL, Crowell KG, Goh SH and Hemmingsen SM. 2004. [cpnDB: a chaperonin sequence database.](https://genome.cshlp.org/content/14/8/1669.abstract) Genome Res. 14:1669-1675.
{.grid-list}